Chatapps are cool. Yeah sure, you have positive emotions too. Ed is not so that everything is bad that we have. Maybe that comes across wrong. Patient management, for example, is just so bad that you only have negative feelings about it. Sure, they outweigh them by far. But the ultrasound tool is very good. It's practical, it helps. So there are good tools that also have positive connotations. But that's the expectation and why should I be happy about that in particular when you buy something, and it just fulfills the expectation. So when I buy shoes and can handle them, I'm not insanely euphoric now. I expect the car to drive or the shoe. So simply fulfillment of the expectation. If it were something really great, of course, then I would also behave euphorically. But that's an experience that I'm less familiar with in this context. In private apps, WhatsApp or these things are rather funny when you can send emojis. But here in the corporate environment, that's less common. That is rather not the case. Perhaps this is also a dinosaur question. Because, of course, we come from a generation in which there was much less technical investigation and more of a clinical view and clinical experience was relevant. Not that we... So of course we do computed tomography. Of course we have electronic ECG evaluations. Of course we have electronic cardiotocography, so monitoring of the child and the birth. And we rely on that as well. So it's not that we don't use that. Of course we do. But it may be an advantage or disadvantage, by the fact that one was trained, as it were, long before that time, one also still has a certain clinical view, which may also be able to classify the diagnoses of the electronics. So it can be that I say, yes that fits, that's right, that also fits my gut feeling or what I think clinically. Or, no, the machine can say what it wants, something is wrong. And I would probably trust my feeling that something is wrong more. Even if it might turn out afterwards, no, the machine was right. But I think that's perhaps also a generational problem. Young people don't know that anymore, they rely on it 100%. That also has advantages. They are also quicker to handle. They have grown up with it, they don't know any time without e-mail. But then, of course, you have the restriction that if the machine tells nonsense, and it does that from time to time, or if it only shows a fraction of a complex puzzle, they can't classify it. It has both sides.
