Yes, that happens quite often, especially with the MedStandards, when you go through a flow chart, for example, if it's a field that I don't have on a daily basis. For example, in my last service I had a patient who came to the emergency room with an inflammation of the liver, already pre-existing due to a chronic liver disease, where you have no information from the patient. And then you simply have different laboratory values and there are just different ratios that you need, for example, to look a little bit, is it an alcohol-related liver damage or is it drug-related toxic or is it now caused by an autoimmune disease, etc. And then it is just very, very difficult to determine the cause of the liver damage. And then it's just very, very nice when you systematically go through an algorithm like that and then at the end the values just fit together. The patient, for example, was actually alcohol-related and had had this liver inflammation. So that's a quick sense of achievement, and then of course you're happy that everything makes sense, which you might have thought intuitively from the start, what the problem was, and then you also have a good concept for the patient. And now, I was on duty on Pentecost Sunday and that was actually a positive and pleasant experience. Or typically, if you have these scores for pulmonary embolism patients and then you calculate them and then you confirm the suspicion and then you determine the D-dimers in the laboratory and then they are also positive and then you do CT. And then you see the pulmonary embolism, these are simply moments where the assistants are of course happy because they see, okay, that made sense and it made sense to invest the time to take another closer look and calculate the scores. And then, I think, it's also a nice feeling for them, and it's great for the patients, because you know what they have and can help them quickly. And I think it also takes away from many, especially the young colleagues, so we also have enough colleagues who are fresh out of university and of course have virtually no experience, except from the internships or the practical year. And if you give them something with such score systems or such platforms like UpToDate or with standards, where they can look themselves, can search in the short time they have, where they can see the patients in the emergency, that also takes away a certain uncertainty. Because otherwise you are, I know it myself at the beginning, actually extremely rowing, swimming, because you are simply overwhelmed by so much information and you don't quite know how to assign your knowledge from your studies and then everything is just chaos. And I find that when you have such a nice flow chart arranged according to symptoms, that brings a bit of peace and simply a structure into it. I notice it, of course it's easy for me to talk because I've been there for a long time, but you can always see it in the young colleagues that there's still a bit of a lack of structure or they're so completely and if you just try to bring a bit of structure into it, then just, as I said, this pressure and this stress, so that is then also clearly improved. And also this fear, I mean, there are also enough colleagues who are really afraid, then they have a patient who is not well and they have no feeling at all what is wrong with him and that of course causes enormous stress. And I think these tools help enormously to bring in a little bit, as I said, structure, calmness and just to think systematically, analytically, okay, step 1, what is the main symptom? Shortness of breath. Step 2, what can cause shortness of breath? According to the principle of exclusion. Step 3, there's just such a nice structure in there, which helps a lot for you, especially at the beginning, especially for my young colleagues.
