So that with the scanner, I had already mentioned that. Then I think our databank is a great, innovative tool, where a bit of IT support is necessary. So I would really imagine, maybe with a student course, because it's a databank, it's probably IT, first semester, so it's nothing really challenging. But where it could become a really good tool with the care maybe. I have a colleague that I worked with another city, also a nursing expert, who developed an app as part of her PhD, the app, where I think that's something really cool. It's about allogeneic stem cell transplants, these are patients who, after they've had the transplant, have some such plasma, for at least a good year. And they now have an app on hand where they can guess their symptoms every day. Where their symptoms are divided into green, yellow, red, where the result is fed back to their colleague, the nursing expert, who also sees when someone is perhaps heading for a catastrophe. And then she can also intervene, and the patient himself is of course also informed if he has to intervene. So of course I think such tools are great, and this is now for allogentransplanted patients, something like that would of course be useful in oncology in general. I work in a working group at a cancer society, where we are considering whether we can make such a multiprofessional symptom and stress tool. I always keep in mind that the focus is on nursing assessment and nursing consultation. So I have a consultation with a patient about the first chemotherapy and do this multiprofessional assessment with him, where the patient can then best be assessed electronically, we are with electronic tools, which of course always makes it much easier, because then the results are of course also available multiprofessionally. And then there are various cut-off points where a red light comes on: I need a psychooncologist, a sports therapist or a physiotherapist, I need a nutritionist. I always say that you could then put together the orchestra for the patient, so to speak, with nursing as the one who ascertains the need and pulls the orchestra together. But it is always important that we are not the conductor, but that we are part of the orchestra, because we can of course offer our own interventions to the patient, have our own trigger points, where in principle it concerns us and where we can offer something to the patient. And if there were such a thing, of course, and my impression is that everyone is always thinking of themselves, the palliative physicians want to digitalize their own symptom assessment, the psychooncologists want to digitalize their stress thermometer. So everyone wants their own, then there are the geriatricians with the G8 screening, there are enough tools like that, and at the end of the day the problem is always how to get it to the people. And they all have that problem, but the idea that you could throw it all together and that you could work together, they just don't come up with that either. And that's what's missing.

