So actually the app where I would probably get a nervous breakdown together if I realized in the morning that it doesn't work anymore is this dictation app. Because when you're in office hours and you're seeing on average, I would say, 20 patients a day and then you realize, oh shit, this app doesn't work anymore in the morning. That was for example, we have software updates every now and then where then sort of all the duty phones are updated or then there was a changeover of the models and then the apps are always down and you have to reinstall all of them and then you reinstall those and then, there's always problems. And that's actually the app that I, when I have office hours, that's really essential and that would make my day-to-day work much more difficult if that didn't work anymore. So that's, that's been there a few times and that's when you start sweating, of course, because if you have to start documenting every report by hand, then you're not having fun there. It makes it super efficient if you have a little bit of experience because then you really, so of course not every consultation report is off the shelf, but still you have your phrases and your structure and if you have that, then you can finish such a real consultation report that is detailed within a minute and dictate that all ready. You see that immediately in front of you and that works well, that has a good speech recognition and that's really what makes this everyday most efficient.I'm just satisfied then. I have to say, for me personally it's just like this, I enjoy the job and I'm also someone who invests a lot of time in this job, but nevertheless I'm still someone who also values his private life and wants to pursue his hobbies and somehow wants to meet his friends. And I'm not someone who sacrifies himself for this job, average but not above average, and sacrifices that so extremely, because I somehow don't see that I have to sacrifice my existence. And accordingly, I can get pretty angry when something technical doesn't work, which makes everyday life more difficult for me and simply leads to me having to be in the hospital for one or two hours longer than is actually reasonable.
