
Yes, efficiency, time savings, but also costs are also an important factor and we have gone through this a few times with products that are now being offered as software solutions for artificial intelligence. So there are programs that can assess certain X-ray images and then add an indication to the X-ray image, does it have a bone fracture, yes or no. And there is another program that can assess the length of the X-ray image. And there is another program that can measure the length of the leg on the X-ray image or the angle, whether I have knock knees or bow legs. These are all activities that we do by hand. A measurement like that can take 30 seconds. And if I have it automated, I don't have to remeasure it by hand. But the question is, how good are these tools? As for the bone fracture, which I mentioned, there are also many findings that are not correct. And if I have findings where it says there is a fracture, but I don't see one, I can look closely so that I really don't see one, then I am convinced as a radiologist that it is nothing. But if I use this software in surgery in a small hospital on night duty, and then there is only one resident who is on site and he has this tool, that might help him. But there would also be the question, if the tool then makes a mistake and the user has little experience, how do you deal with that? So there are certain things that support here and that's a great thing, but if the quality is not high enough yet, you ask yourself now, and there again back to the cost, do I like to invest this cost? These are often license fees of somehow 10,000 francs per year that you pay. And the question is then, is each of these tools, each of these modules, worth these 10,000 francs to me? I believe that in the future the answer will be yes. And at the beginning, the answer is still unclear. But then there are institutes that simply buy this so that they can say on the website that we have the most modern technology, even if it is perhaps not yet so product-ready. But I am convinced that if we use such tools, they really have to facilitate and improve our workflow. And that doesn't just have to be AI, it can also be other software that is offered to us, where I say, what does it bring to the patients, do we really make a gain in quality or safety, or a cost gain. But most of the time it's more that the costs go up without there really being a measurable benefit. And then I say, then I'm not going to use a tool like that. What I think will happen, and is already happening now, is that smaller companies or software packages will be bought up by larger providers and then actually, like an app store, you can download these products, which makes it a bit easier to implement these products, so that you don't have to test and implement every software solution in-house, in the IT department, but that you have system access via a large manufacturer and can then obtain these smaller modules. I think this is the direction it will take. But I'm relatively critical when it comes to deciding whether we really buy it or not. We don't just say, yes, go for it. Instead, we think carefully about what will help us in our daily routine.
