Basically, what I mega appreciate is when a patient comes in and I know him or I don't know him, it doesn't really matter. I enter his name and I have all the records of him, what was in the last few years. On the click, immediately. Then it's usually still very well documented or labeled, just in the title, what it is. That means, this is a physio case, this is an emergency case, for example, the lady was only in gynecology. Then I can say just at a glance already now for example if one comes because of a broken foot, ah she was already there physiotherapy and has already had something there. That is mega positive for me. I'm happy then, but it doesn't really trigger emotions. I have to say that honestly. It's "nice to have" for me and I think it's mega cool. I think it would be a shame if we didn't have that in our zitalter here in Central Europe. Exactly, so that's the information collection that you have immediately and also that you can access that immediately. For example, if you have a twin, you can enter the patient name of the twin and look it up immediately. You can also look at relatives if it concerns the patient, because otherwise relatives and acquaintances are not relevant except in these situations. And I also find it exciting when I transfer patients to the ICU, for example, then I can, if I ever have time, check to see how they're doing. Is the therapy working? Have they been able to go home? I find that mega positive, that I also don't have to bother anyone or bother the patient. It's very resource-saving, because I can do that at any time and always, check it out quickly. And that I then have the info, and that's like also a learning effect, right? Because then I can also look up, ah, he didn't have what I thought he had, because now they have changed the therapy. That is a learning effect for me, because then I know, okay, the laboratory is now, for example, now the inflammation value has risen even though we give antibiotics, which I also find very positive.

