Well, we have a blood glucose tool here. And I am here now, in fact, this is really not my area of expertise. I deal with cancer and everything else, that's what the others deal with. So that's why it's only in the margins. But I will say that in the past, when I measured blood sugar, I would poke the patient in the finger, then hold out a device and 30 seconds later I knew what his sugar was and could react to it. Today, I first need a specific blood glucose meter, where I have to scan the patient, then scan myself, and so on and so forth, so that this device is then connected to the laboratory and the blood glucose value that I measure then also appears in the laboratory program. So, that's very complicated, especially where the measurement of blood glucose comes up from one minute, because then the device always wants to be calibrated at that moment or then has no connection or the batteries are empty. So there is always something and that blows it up to 10-15 minutes. And then there is also this tablet, where nothing else is needed, where it actually has to be more or less charged, where it then somehow dictates the post-injection regimen for the patient, that is, what insulin I give him or her. So, I find that very complicated. I know that this makes more effort for the nurses, as it brings them along and that this is also a highly controversial digitization project in the end. For example, we are benefiting very positively from an example from another hospital. That was for example with the blood products, there is the electronic control via scanner. So, where I'm so trimmed, you have to do another bedside test and double check for every blood product. It's all very complicated. And I scan out the blood product in the blood bank when I pick it up there, and then scan it in again on the ward, and that's it. So to speak, with the patient's glue and everything. Of course, I still have to check whether I have the right patient, but that's nice and easy. And that's how it would be in the chemotherapy prescription tool for the documentation of chemotherapy. So, I scan the patient, I scan myself, I scan the product and then everything is documented there. The interface between the chemotherapy prescription tool and the pharmacy software again throws a spanner in the works. We have a tool here that cannot work with the hospital information system, and also not with the chemotherapy prescription tool. The fact that they can't work together and don't want to work together prevents such great, innovative processes.
