It is frustrating. For example, the tumor board tool is not very clear. Even as a figurative person somehow, to enter it is very tedious. It takes a lot of steps to even log in. So it's very cumbersome. And it then leads to the fact that the people who then enter these tumor board registrations then simply enter them completely inadequately. When a question is asked, they simply say "procedure" instead of thinking about something and writing it down. So you spend so much energy to even get into this application that afterwards the quality of the application suffers. So that's frustrating to me. So, it's also annoying to me. So I'm frustrated because it takes so long. It bugs me because it goes so long. I don't have the fear that with me the quality suffers. Because now when I have to run the tumor board, I look at everything once myself. I go through every patient and every patient myself again and work them out. If this was a simple one tool where people would enter appropriate information, then all I would have to do to prepare the board is follow that system. But now I have to kind of consult all the others, the x-ray, the patho, the surgical resources. And that makes it extremely cumbersome and in the time constraints it's just a little unnecessary. So it's frustrating when it doesn't work, or when it's just so cumbersome. And it also makes me angry, because we need a certain increase in efficiency, and if afterwards these systems don't help us to achieve this increase in efficiency, that's frustrating. For example, the dictation tool with speech recognition, that has saved me a lot of work. Because earlier we were dictating, and then my dictation went to the secretary's office. They wrote it down in a Word document and then the document came back to me for correction. That is then via mail. Then I got a mail again. And now with the dictation tool, I dictate it, read through what I wrote, and it's done. And it's just looked at once and then it's gone. Especially with dictating, it's always come back. And then I've gotten a reminder again because I've got the mail gone. So for me, it just has to be efficient. And the tumor board tool is just not efficient at all. And then you lose a lot of energy where you could be doing other things, I could be doing continuing education in that time, with the assistants for example. That's a bit frustrating.
