No, but I am annoyed that someone is writing 18-page lists of diagnoses. But that's not an excessive demand, it's laziness somewhere, that you don't cut out the things that are no longer relevant.
What is also unfortunate is that we have very difficult access to quality and research data, although the information is available. A data warehouse has not been set up, or there is certain cumulative data within SAP, so that you can see how many patients are under certain criteria, but these are criteria that are administrative financial data and so on number of consultations or so on. But what we are interested in is, of course, I would like to know if patients have complications, if they die with certain diagnoses, or certain other characteristics, gender, age and things like that, laboratory values, and I would like to be able to extract that from the system and the information would all be there, but that is not possible. Here, too, we had already applied for this and it was rejected because it was too expensive, and of course the wish will continue to exist. Then a clinic goes, says I need this, so goes the management and the management says we understand that they need it. And some kind of tool is procured, something just for this area, and that is a development that I understand, but it is expensive and benefits few. My idea is that you shouldn't standardize everything completely, because otherwise you won't get anywhere. But there are certain things that have an overriding benefit that can be offered. The hospital should prioritize and offer these, and most functions are ultimately of interest to everyone. We have a blood donation center, which is not part of the company. But it is connected to it and they do the testing when we want to do blood transfusions to see if someone has antibodies, for example blood group and so on. However, this information is only sent to the ward via pneumatic tube and only once, and you can't ask for it again afterwards. There is no tool that allows you to see the data electronically. We've wanted that for a long time, the anesthesia department said we need it for the operation and then an interface was created, and that is, if someone has an operation tomorrow, then you can see whether there is blood there now, i.e. test blood and what the blood group is, but only if an operation is planned, otherwise you can't see it. So if I want to operate on someone and I look at the operation plan, then I can see it. And that may be a great development for anesthesia, but it's a disaster for obstetrics and other clinics, because they've invested money and energy in building something that simply has a sectoral benefit for one area, instead of saying at the beginning, if someone needs it, maybe there are other patients who also need blood. Why don't we do something clever that benefits everyone? And that wouldn't have been more expensive, but it would have been much more useful and that can make me really sad.
