That's more the case in the hospital. You can use the computer for anything. I don't have a concrete example. But you notice that, for example, the program doesn't open. That leads to quite a bit of powerlessness and frustration. I have a colleague who sometimes bangs the mouse on the table. Or colleagues who say they want to throw the computer out of the window. That's not so emotional for me yet. But you notice that you're reaching your own technical limits. The second part is that you don't know where to call or when to ask specifically. There's a key user in our department who's great, but she's on vacation right now. And if I had an acute problem right now, I wouldn't know who to contact. And then there's the option of sending a ticket in the hospital.  But you don't know that if you can't get to the computer, you can't send a ticket. That's where it fails. And the people who do get in touch always call when you don't have time. So, they don't care about our clinical process. Instead, they call at some point, but then you are in consultation. Therefore, the way this problem is dealt with is unpleasant and problematic. There have been situations where I start early in the morning at 6 and there have been situations where I absolutely had to use something at that time. And that was time-relevant from my perspective. And at that time of day, of course, no one from support is there. And then there is an emergency number. Then I also used it once, because I thought it was urgent. But then the IT employee said that it wasn't an emergency and that I had misused it. That is also interesting, the assessment of whether it is an emergency. You can take different perspectives on this. I have another topic on frustration. We have a tumor board. That would be very important for cooperation. We have the possibility that you can participate virtually in the sarcoma board. The idea is that referring physicians don't necessarily have to come to the hospital, but they can sit at home or in the office and dial in. The system exists, but it is obviously not intuitive either, so users usually have trouble with it. There is no central support for it from the hospital. What happened yesterday at the tumor board was that someone tried to log in, and we didn't even hear the person or perceive that the person was having trouble with it. That is frustrating to the max. It damages the collaboration and in some cases also the reputation of the hospital if it is completely external people who sit at the computer and then can't get through. Also another bad experience. I was allowed to give the lecture and then I depend on everything being technically arranged. During these lectures, external locations of the cantonal hospital are also connected. And that part is always a huge problem from one of the lecture halls. Then the key users from my clinic and I went there half an hour before to set up. And in that half hour, it wasn't possible. That stresses me out unbelievably. I'm not responsible for it, but it still stresses me out. And then I had to change the computer three times and the screen. So from that, this issue after COVID, you would think that anything that involves video conferencing should actually work. But we're a long way from that.

