Yes, there are many. Yes, so every time a new program comes, which has now, so to speak, caused a lot of frustration recently, so it's the dictation tool, the speech recognition program. There are words, I don't know how many times I've trained the program and opened up the training function and spoken that, written that. Yes. It just doesn't recognize it. It's impossible. So sometimes funny things come out, but it's also dangerous. Because if I don't manage to correct the reports myself and then it goes to somebody else who sees and gets the report from me. And if I get a report from another attending just to proofread, then I look through it to make sure that the report makes sense, that there are no spelling errors, that the sentences are correct. Then I don't look at the images again. I don't have to check them. It's really a question of whether the letter is correct as it is and whether it can go out. I assume that my colleagues are doing a good job and that I'm not correcting the content, but the grammar. And what makes the program very difficult is if you start talking too fast, it doesn't take the first words. I see. And there is more often times from "no tumor rest" then "a tumor rest". A letter that is minimal, but if someone else now reads the text and reads over it, that is still grammatically correct. If he doesn't open the pictures now, because he also says, it suits me, she'll know what she's doing. I don't have to correct or check the content. I just have to make sure that the report is correct. This can really make patients feel insecure. So if a report suddenly goes out because of a lost letter, I can no longer hand in my reports to colleagues with a clear conscience. So when you go on vacation and then there is still a lot to correct. Out of concern for exactly such errors, which the other person may not recognize because he doesn't see any grammatical or content errors, but the whole thing is wrong because it's wrong in terms of content. That is really for the patients then also very, very dangerous and relevant. And that often leads to frustration for me because that just keeps my workload up, of course, because then I don't turn that in. I don't know how the others handle it. And that can't be trained away either. I find that very frustrating. And that it just doesn't learn some things. And then you sit and sit and sit. And in the meantime we do work that the secretariat actually does. But it saves me from having to redo the report, but I basically correct the report completely myself. So I write it, I correct it, the formatting is still done by the secretariat. And then I don't know if that's really my job as a doctor. But before I get it again in the signature workflow, because I just send it away, the program is too good for that, that that's necessary, that I read it so often, but not good enough that I can just dictate it and send it away blindly. And that's where a lot of frustration comes. So there's really a lot of frustration with the program.
