I find it very unmanageable with the medications. They all have the same color, the bars. So you always have to look at the front in real detail. They are very close together. You really have to pay attention when you change something, for example norepinephrine. And underneath you have, let's say, propofol or something like that. I mean N and P is in alphabetical order. Then you always have to look carefully, am I in the right line now, what do I change? It would be helpful if norepinephrine, for example, was somehow highlighted in orange. And propofol is highlighted in yellow, just like they are. Or I think norepinephrine is purple, the label that's on the medication. That you also make it a little bit more recognizable like on this emergency page. That you know faster, this is norepinephrine, I go up there and I can adjust it faster. I would evaluate that for example as negative, because it is very small and unmanageable. Otherwise, has it been said that way, with clinical information system. Yes, and it is still under development. For example, all the nursing processes, the nursing prescriptions that we can include, that's all still in the process. Which buttons are important, which can be left out? For example, oral care with chloridexidine or something. But there is, for example, if you do a kick-off check, there is a button for that. But it's not stored how much time you needed for that. Or when you take patients from the OR and have to set them up, it takes a long time until you have sorted all the cables and changed the ventilation. There is also no button where you can press, for example, set up. Then it files with 15 min the time. There are still some things, but they are working on it. There is always something new coming. I think overall there is a lot of room for improvement. For example, I would also find rounds with an iPad good. Not with this piece of paper, but that you also digitize it. But yes, that's still kind of on the way. It is incredibly time-consuming for the process. What would also be negative is if you have to split this curve. After 28 days, doctors have to redo all the prescriptions. They are not taken over. You have to re-enter all installations. So you have to transcribe all of them beforehand or have the page printed out once that you have them. Then it's hard to adjust the insertion date. It doesn't take over much sometimes. If you want to change the central recliner catheter for example , it's been in for 14 days and would need to be changed soon. Then you can't enter those 14 days retroactively. That's one thing where it becomes inaccurate when you do this splitting. It takes almost 1.5 h. Most of the time it's at lunch time, when you get off work, the next service comes. Most of the time the IT people have to come in and do it with you. It's a tremendous amount of work. I feel like in China they would pull it over and then it would be done. We sit there for almost 1.5 h and have to re-enter everything. The doctors have to redo all the prescriptions. They also have to remember not to forget anything. I see a high source of error that can occur with such a split of a patient file. 
