Yes, so that alludes to the question of whether artificial intelligence is somehow dangerous or not, or? Well, my perception is that we have always used tools that had limitations. Whether what it says is really true. And I mean, there have been textbooks in the past where it just said crap. And in my training as a doctor, the first years as a resident at that time was just still the, or I today certainly still been until home, just the ever inclined senior physician or especially the chief physician is simply always right. Point. At that time, you could not yet look so quickly on the Internet, whether the right and then he has simply always right and then quite a lot I noticed later, that has simply been junk. So we already had the tools in the past that maybe told us things that weren't true. And even then we learned how to deal with that. We learned that if he says something, you just don't believe him, do you? And then the Internet came along. And on the Internet, too, it was clear that you can't take everything for what it says, can you? When I have to do something at home that I like to do, but I'm not good at it, I go online to watch videos and there's just one part that's also just junk. And just wrong and I had to learn that. And it's the same with the new tools. So, the translation tool is maybe one of those tools, right? I've been using that, I think, for a very long time, really at a time when it was still little known. There I think at that time they had mainly these official EU documents that were available in several languages. I think that was your database that they started with back then, as far as I remember. And there was at the beginning, not everything quite fit, right? But then it got better and better. For a lot of things, it just takes time. Or the AI text generation tools are also such a nice example, I mean, there are things that are junk. And then it just needs a second place where you check the information. And that's what we used to do there. In the past, we didn't just ask the boss, but if we didn't believe him, we asked someone else and saw what kind of answer they gave. In other words, an external review. And that's how it was then, that's how it is now. And I feel like we're learning to deal with that. And the human brain has significant limitations. So and the translation tool is much better today than it used to be. We're learning to deal with it and in many areas that's just better, if it's done well, than what we're doing. Yes, I'm not so afraid of that.
