Yes, rather, if it goes a bit in the direction that perhaps the young colleagues spend more time with the tools than with the patient, that's clear. There is this nice saying "Listen to your patient, the patient tells you his diagnosis". It's like this, just put my cell phone away and when you're with the patient, just listen to them, just listen. What do they say to you and also let everything have an effect on you, how is the patient's facial expression, the gestures and simply also all the other, how is the skin color and all these, I don't know how to describe it, but also this clinical look, because just you see a patient, you can immediately say, he is seriously ill or he is actually well. Or you rarely have cases where you are surprised that it is the other way around and the patients look better than they are. But most of the time it works, and of course that comes with experience, that's clear. And then, of course, just being patient with the patient, really listening to the patient when he tells you something. That's often a problem that I see with younger colleagues and also a really good physical examination. So you don't just say, okay, the patient has shortness of breath, he has a known lung disease, then it's just exacerbated COPD, that is, exacerbated lung disease. And already go straight into a track like that and then maybe you look at that already in the tool and then you're already so completely biased in that direction. I think that's something that you should only look at once you've looked at the patient. I have to say to one or the other colleague, "Have you seen the patient? What did he tell you? How was the examination? Before a tool is used or an X-ray or a CT scan is ordered. Young colleagues are often very quick with tools and diagnostics and spend less time with the patient. And I see that as a bit of a danger, but then it's more likely to be the somewhat younger colleagues. I see. With the older colleagues who have been with us longer, they have recognized that it is important to be in the right place and to get an overview. I think it is frustrating. You just get annoyed. It's just a bit annoying when you really say, have you seen the patient? Have you examined the abdomen? And then most colleagues honestly say, no, and well, why not? There are no excuses now. The patient is there and you have to examine him. And don't just make a preformed opinion that he has nothing, for example, or he's crazy or psychologically decompensated, and then it's something else that's behind it. So more simply that I am annoyed. I think frustration is perhaps almost too much now. One says then, actually you also became a doctor, to look at the patient and not simply to announce on the cell phone any examinations. Just look at the patient.

