No, I would have said, no. I'm actually a big fan of the technologies, I have to say, because first and foremost they make our everyday lives much easier, actually make everything more efficient and also safer. I think we are still way too far behind and accordingly I don't think it changes me negatively. On the contrary, I also have the expectation of neurosurgery that this is a very technological discipline that is very dependent on technology. But I rather think that if you take the example of digital patient files and something like that, which we don't yet have in St. Gallen, for example, other locations already have that, when it comes to medication orders, that they are made digitally or whether they are recorded by hand. In Germany, data protection is a very big issue, where it is said that a mistake is made and a hack occurs, that patient data is stolen, and that leads to very, very great damage. I don't know if the people who say something like that have ever dealt with this, how much damage is actually caused by handwritten errors in everyday life that happen every day, where patients are given the wrong medication in the wrong dosages. I believe that this damage, where people then also die or suffer from it, is very, very much higher and the figure is probably not even known. There is no reason or argument for me to stop or slow down the technological step by justifying it with data protection. I don't think that justifies anything. That's why I would say the concerns are so minor. Of course, you have to be familiar with the technology, that's the be-all and end-all. If you don't do that, especially with the devices you're dealing with, then of course you can't trust them if you're not familiar with them, if things like that don't work. But from experience, 95 percent of the time it's always user error, like often or almost always. That's why it's up to you how much you deal with it, whether you then allow it or not, or whether you resist it. But then, I think, you tend to make your life even more difficult in the future. We also have apps that we work with, with patients, where there are now studies, also by colleagues of mine, where you can track how the patients or quite simply these health apps on the smartphones that counts the steps. There, a colleague just retrospectively evaluated the things, how much the patients occupied before the surgery and after the surgery, just about the step count. That's something that you can't actually normally capture, to collect a patient's data before the disease has even occurred or a manifestation has occurred. With that, you can also record beautiful progression and of course much more targeted than with special apps, with special tests. In other words, you have much more precise, much, much better data if you do it cleverly, in order to improve care.
