Yes, massive. I think the most glaring change is just the Internet. Because it's a tool that every patient has. And that's where the demands on doctors have changed so much. I mean, I've already talked about this with the senior physicians or with the senior physicians and so on. They said that when they started, they didn't have all that, they just didn't know all that. And if you didn't know, if you wanted to know something, you had to go to the library, you had to open a medical book and you had to look it up. No patient knew anything about anything and what the doctor said was simply correct and accurate. Today it is expected that we are only delivering and only performing and we should know everything. However, every patient is already smarter than we are, which is also correct in individual cases. We can't have endless detailed knowledge about every clinical picture, but we simply have to know how to get from the symptom to the diagnosis or from the findings that I have to the diagnosis, and then I can see whether this is something that can be treated easily with the knowledge that I have or whether I need a specialist for it. And above all, where do I get the knowledge for diagnostics and therapy? I think that has become much more decisive today than really the blatant expertise, where just everyone knows everything, because it no longer exists today. You can no longer know everything with this flood of information that we have, and as fast as this field is progressing, it is simply no longer possible to know everything. I think that the main competence of the physician has shifted more towards knowing where I get my knowledge from and where I generate the knowledge so that I can help the patient properly and also be able to put the findings that I receive into an overall picture. Because the patients read something specific and then come up with it and ride around on it, but the whole rest, the whole context around it is not right in the beginning and in the end. I think that has become our main task.
