So I think it goes in the direction that we have less patient contact, so that that already changes, that one has more things, just the eyes on the PC still with, the things still with in the view. For the consultation hours, so that I can really focus on the patient in a more concentrated way, I have any things turned off. I actually have a digital watch, a smartwatch, that I use when I'm on duty, so that I can see when someone needs me urgently and I don't miss anything. That, in turn, also helps on duty, for example. When I'm wearing a skirt, I don't have my cell phone in my pocket. I can have it in my backpack and I can hear when it rings, even if the environment is noisy. So that's where it helps me. But when I'm not on duty, I consciously avoid those things and I don't have push messages. I have any things, even these pop up things on the PC, I have all deactivated so that I am not constantly distracted in the interaction with people, to really have the attention on the patients there. And especially in the consultation, I notice that, that's very valuable. Because otherwise, when I had this at the beginning, you always look briefly when this thing comes up. And on the PC, I sometimes don't notice immediately when something happens. And then sometimes you fall behind, because everyone who has these push messages reacts immediately, so to speak. But some problems are also solved if you leave the email for a while and don't get to it right away. But I think you're more efficient when you're not constantly being interrupted. It's more valuable in the interaction with other people. And especially when we have team meetings as well, half of the team, when somebody's talking, they're looking at their phone and doing something else or looking because a message came in. And I find that in the interaction between people, we rarely see each other anyway. And when you do see each other, you're allowed to talk to each other and exchange ideas. And you're distracted there. I notice that because I consciously try to avoid it, questions are often asked several times. So things that were actually said are then lost because the person was distracted by some vibration, a message, or an e-mail, etc. on the cell phone, because it looked up something else. And then the early meeting sometimes goes on longer. Because then the things that were actually being said were not heard at all, because you were distracted by all the digital stuff. Instead of just concentrating for five minutes. And then it's done. And I think that also has something to do with appreciation. 

