Yes, but only if we become innovative ourselves. So with ideas like the one I just told you about, which are then integrated into a multi-professional process, that will change the image of us. The situation as I see it now will not change in nursing. Because digitization, and I'm a very big black thinker here, but these are my experiences. Digitization always has something to do with money. When it comes to money, people always think of the doctors first. As a rule, when we then, because they are also justified in working the money into such a hospital, but so to speak, when their needs are worked off, then the money is usually gone. And then care must somehow still fit in. And then there is no more budget. And in nursing there are also further developments and necessities. And the standard phrase you hear is that there is no budget. Or, digitization always costs an insane amount of money. In Switzerland even more than abroad, where I am always amazed. I mean, to my mind, such an electronic curve is, at the end of the day, something like a nicely made spreadsheet. And if I want an additional line with a number from 0 to 10 for nausea, that cost almost 2,000 euros. Whereby I then say, okay, where do I get as a nurse without budget, without everything, where do I get 2,000 euros now. Here with us, the chemotherapy prescription tool, that only one line in the hospital information system is created, where it says, the patient now gets the chemotherapy cisplatin because of me. In other words, it only says cisplatin. This line costs over 36,000 francs. And that is death for pretty much everything that is nursing needs. And we had developed, for example, a standard of care. Pressure ulcer prophylaxis, that's a very basic nursing topic. And in the case of pressure sores, of course, I have to record the patient's pressure sore risk. I'll just say that the scientific basis of the instrument I use to assess the risk has changed. And we have adapted the standard accordingly. Now, of course, the conventional risk assessment instrument was in the hospital information system. The new one, of course, was not yet in the system. The conversion would have cost so much money that that was a standard of care that was not implemented. And this has led to the fact that the risk of pressure sores continues to exist with old methods that have long since been scientifically discarded. So it's also, I say, a brake on innovation in nursing. And in the analog world, if I want to change the risk assessment tool, then I make a nice sheet of paper and put it in the printer and distribute it to the wards and then it's changed. And in the digital world, then I have to submit a project application, need project funds for it, and the third obstacle or the second obstacle, which still exists, is the time resources of IT. So even if I have the money, I first have to move up in the hierarchy from all the work that IT has to a position that allows me to think about it in the next few years. Because when I have the money, IT will say in two years at the earliest. And then I have to say that I don't need digitization. It won't do me any good then. And that, in my view, is the reality of care as I have experienced it.
