I do believe that digitization is a positive thing. And I would actually like to see even more. What's also IT-related here in the house is the telephony. And the telephony is actually not usable. But I have to use it, I have no other choice. But the telephony that we've had for five or six years is not usable for emergencies. That's what I keep saying. It doesn't work reliably either. Especially as a shift supervisor, it's a tragedy. We've had two or three attempts at a new phone system. And the decision is always made for a new solution, which is then sorted out again in other houses. And I find that tragic. Because if I could choose, I wouldn't choose telephony. And I say that again and again. And I myself think digitization is great. Or for example, we now want to collect process times. And that's in the patient management system and in the new clinic information system, you don't always go and sit at a PC. Because we care about the patient, and not about the PC. And for example, in anesthesia they do that, they always sit at the PC at the patient's head. That's not the case here. And we ended up with 30 process pages. But there is no simple tool that costs little, that can fulfill our needs. And then they say it's a good app. But when I have an app in the thing, I always have to call the patient. It's just not fast enough. And I'm the one who's been saying for 20 years she needs a GPS to track, with the cell phone. Then I would see where I was on a board. You could use that a lot. Then you could solve a lot of things the same way. The patient might also need GPS. But that's not possible because of all the IT, security and data protection. But I would be open to that personally. We have also had a lot of IT for a long time. Maybe I'll show you our ward room later. I have to tell you, it is also cute 20 years ago. My predecessor, who was also still involved, then went on to rescue. He was relatively innovative. And 20 years ago, people still said, can I still be able to get pregnant there. But then they all got pregnant right away. But that was hearty, that was still an issue because it said why is there so much IT. But that was still heartfelt. That was very special. That was still an apprehension because we have a lot of women working for us. But there were also twins a couple of times. So, we need informatics to help us in our processes. When I started here, we launched our own IT project relatively quickly in an emergency for a nursing report and for prescriptions together with a company. We just weren't ready for that yet. That was a clinic that we showed how they had to prescribe. They said we don't do that electronically. And that's why it was discontinued. But of course, that was also a completely different level. That's what I think is the biggest challenge for me also in the new clinic information system, that you can work quickly with the prescriptions that you have to make in an emergency and everybody knows what how and where. That's just always easy on a piece of paper. He writes, I tick off, and the doctors give us a lot of verbal prescriptions. And in the new clinic information system it is forced that this is done on the PC. And that's where we're bringing in a huge slowdown. That is a huge challenge, also in the new hospital information system, it has to be said. But otherwise I am quite positive. And I'm sometimes surprised that they flew to the moon in 1969, when I was three years old. And where the state of information technology is now. It works for us in the emergency room. But of course I would like to see more. I think we are already very behind in the hospitals. And the problem is also because all the interfaces and everything are always so expensive. Just bringing in the rescue service protocol, that was a years-long process until you get to that point. And that sometimes amazes me, I have to tell you quite honestly. Or we've only recently had a rapid user change. We've only had that for three years here in the house. So we in the emergency still had it about a year before. It's not that fast, but at least it's faster than before. And I'm surprised about that. There are other houses, I sometimes think further. I think computer science projects are all very difficult here. They are always huge projects with a lot of costs and a lot of people involved, where you want to lump everything together. Where afterwards, in our case the emergency as a special area, is always a bit difficult. Yes, that's why I'm actually involved in many such projects, but you can't cover everything. And now the IT structure is also slow again at the moment, I think. You know, there's a difference between an office workstation or a workstation down there in the emergency is where I work. Those are different requirements. And that's sometimes difficult to deliver. That's a little bit of my problem that I have right now. That's the challenge. And you also have a lot of staff turnover in informatics. That comes into it as well. And we also have a lot of expertise that keeps going. In our patient management system project, I think we had three or four project managers. Of course, that's also difficult for the next one.
