At the moment I feel relatively little in part as a doctor. That sounds sad, but it's also a huge problem that I have myself at the moment. And it also frustrates me enormously in my work, because I do a lot of medical work in the background, but very little actively with patients. The digital tools certainly play a role, because they are unnecessary click jobs. I think to myself, why do I have to search out the consultation assignment for my consultation somewhere in the depths of an archive for five minutes? It should actually be ready there for me to read. That's something I can't relate to at all. But it's also just hospital processes. There's a relatively large amount that's shifted to the residents. Nursing is very good at distancing itself from tasks. In the end, it's always the resident's problem. Because we want it to run. And if we don't keep up with it, it doesn't work. Unfortunately, this is also a bit of an attitude among senior physicians. With us it's like that, because nurses have the authority to prescribe things. And then they say, if it's prescribed incorrectly, you have to control it as a resident. But if she has the competence, then she has the competence. Then it's not my job to control other people's jobs. Or for example, we have an insane amount of secretarial work. Whenever something doesn't go right, we go to the resident and sort it out. Because I'm more experienced and have been at the hospital longer, I've become relatively radical in saying that it's not my job. But it's just insanely frustrating that I, as a doctor, have to submit IV applications or cost approval for any medication. That is absolutely unimaginable for me. It doesn't need me for that. That's not mental work that I learned in medical school. That's why it's so frustrating, and there's a very high level of frustration among all the assistants. I am no longer what I learned. And that's insanely frustrating. So you're just still working as a doctor if you're really working in the acute areas, like emergency and intensive care. There you are working as a doctor, because there you don't do anything social, you don't do social care with the patients, you don't write applications, because that's not needed there. But with the jobs you can do, it's very difficult, because after a year of emergency, I was just physically exhausted. I couldn't do it anymore, I was so tired. And that can not be true.


